# Challenge-1-Steve-s-Car-Showroom #MySQL
You can access the challenge from the following link:- https://www.steeldata.org.uk/sql1.html
#1. What are the details of all cars purchased in the year 2022?

SELECT *, YEAR(sales.purchase_date) AS purchase_year
FROM cars INNER JOIN sales USING (car_id)
WHERE YEAR(sales.purchase_date) = 2022
ORDER BY car_id;

#2. What is the total number of cars sold by each salesperson?

SELECT sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, COUNT(sales.car_id) AS total_car_sold
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
GROUP BY sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name
ORDER BY sales.salesman_id;

#3. What is the total revenue generated by each salesperson?

SELECT sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, SUM(cars.cost_$) AS total revenue
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
INNER JOIN cars USING(car_id)
GROUP BY sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name
ORDER BY sales.salesman_id;

#4. What are the details of the cars sold by each salesperson?

SELECT sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, cars.car_id, cars.make, cars.type,cars.style, cars.cost_$
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
INNER JOIN cars USING (car_id )
GROUP BY sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, cars.car_id
ORDER BY sales.salesman_id, cars.car_id;

#5. What is the total revenue generated by each car type?

SELECT sales.car_id, cars.type, SUM(cars.cost_$) AS total_revenue
FROM sales INNER JOIN cars USING (car_id )
GROUP BY sales.car_id,cars.type
ORDER BY sales.car_id ;

#6 What are the details of the cars sold in the year 2021 by salesperson ‘Emily Wong'?

SELECT sales.car_id, sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, 
YEAR(sales.purchase_date) AS selling,
cars.make, cars.type, cars.style, cars.cost_$
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
INNER JOIN cars USING(car_ id)
WHERE salespersons.name = "Emily Wong” AND YEAR(sales.purchase_date) = 2021
ORDER BY sales.car_id;










#8. What is the total revenue generated by the sales of SUV cars in the year 2822?

SELECT SUM(cars.cost_$) AS total revenue, cars.style
FROM sales JOIN cars USING(car_id)
WHERE style ='SUV' AND YEAR(purchase_date) = 2022
group by cars.style;

#9.What is the name and city of the salesperson who sold the most number of cars in the year 2023?

select sales.salesman_id, salesperscons.name, salespersons.city, COUNT(sales.car_id) as total car_sold_in_2023
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
WHERE YEAR(sales.purchase date) = 2023
GROUP BY sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name
ORDER BY COUNT(sales.car_id) DESC LIMIT 1;

#10. What is the name and age of the salesperson who generated the highest revenue in the year 2022?
SELECT sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name, salespersons.age, SUM(cars.cost_$) AS total_revenue_in_2022
FROM sales INNER JOIN salespersons USING(salesman_id)
INNER JOIN cars USING(car_id)
WHERE YEAR(sales.purchase_date) = 2022
GROUP BY sales.salesman_id, salespersons.name
ORDER BY SUM(cars.cost_$) DESC LIMIT 1;
